Quake

Copyright (C) 1996-2000. Id Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999,2000. The QuakeForge Project.
Parts copyright individual authors.

The QuakeForge Project would like to thank Id Software for the release of
Quake 1 under the GPL and their support of the open source community.

This file details how to get Quake running on your system and what to do
if you have problems.  We would like to thank Gandalf Technologies, Inc
and MPath Interactive for the use of their technology.  We would also like to
thank Trent Reznor and Nine Inch Nails for their tremendous contributions
to Quake's entire audio portion.

The NIN logo is a Registered Trademark licensed to Nothing Interactive, Inc.
All Rights Reserved.

Table of Contents
-----------------

I.	Quake System Requirements
II.	Running and Compiling Quake
III.	Audio Setup (removed)
IV.	CD Audio Input (removed)
V.	Mouse Setup (removed)
VI.	Booting Clean (removed)
VII.	Known Bug Fixes
VIII.	Known Problems
IX.	Troubleshooting
X.	Technical Support
XI.	Joystick notes
XII.	License


I. Quake System Requirements
----------------------------
IBM PC and Compatibles, PPC, Alpha, UltraSparc, Indigo2
VGA Compatible Display or better
8MB RAM minimum, 16MB recommended (16 MB required for running under Win95)
CD-ROM drive no longer *required*
Linux, FreeBSD, IRIX, MS-DOS 5.0 or better, Windows 95
Hard drive space - 30MB for Shareware, 80MB for registered.
Floating point processor required.


II. Running and Compiling Quake
-------------------------------

Read the INSTALL file for more information on compiling.

After you have compiled successfully, you must download the shareware
version of Quake 1 to play. Insert the proper binaries in the same
directory as the unpacked shareware files, and run.


III. Audio Setup
----------------

Removed, to be combined under a section named, "OS Specific Issues"


IV. CD Audio Input
------------------

Removed, to be combined under a section named, "OS Specific Issues"


V. Mouse Setup
--------------

Removed, to be combined under a section named, "OS Specific Issues"


VI. Booting Clean
-----------------

Removed, to be combined under a section named, "OS Specific Issues"


VII. Known bug fixes
--------------------

In software rendering, flicker can occur... If you notice any flickering,
type the following in the quake console: gl_ztrick 0

Add that to your quake configuration files, so you don't have to
constantly type it every time you play.


VIII. Known Problems
--------------------

Problem: Zombies sometime get stuck on the ground and connot get back up.
(You can still hear them, but you cannot kill them. This bug makes it
impossible to get 100% kills on whatever level it occurs on.)
Solution: There is no workaround for this bug.

Problem: It is sometimes possible for the player to get stuck in a room or
in a wall.
Solution: If you get stuck, use the 'kill' console command. It is a good
idea to save your game often.

Problem: View centering problems. Sometimes during a game, the view will
not
center properly.  The end result is the player view looking up torwards
the
ceiling while walking.
Solution: Exit to the next level or use the 'kill' console command..


IX. Troubleshooting
-------------------

If Quake fails to start up, or has problems not addressed elsewhere in the
documentation, try the -safe command line switch, which disables a number
of parts of Quake that can be problems if there are hardware or
configuration
problems.  The -safe command line switch is equivalent to -stdvid,
-nosound,
-nonet, and -nocdaudio together.  Those four switches do the following:

-stdvid: disables VESA video modes.

-nosound: disables sound card support.

-nonet: disables network card support.

-nocdaudio: disables CD audio support.

If -safe makes the problem go away, try using each of the switches
individually to isolate the area in which you're experiencing the problem,
then either correct the configuration or hardware problem or play Quake
with
that functionality disabled.

If you still have problems, try booting clean in conjunction with
the -safe command line parameter.  For information on booting clean, refer
to the "Booting Clean" section above.

If you experience page faults while running Quarterdeck's QDPMI DPMI
server,
this is caused by a bug in QDPMI.  Workarounds:  Remove QDPMI from
CONFIG.SYS,
issue the command QDPMI OFF before running QUAKE, or get the update patch
for QDPMI from Quarterdeck.  You may be running QDPMI without knowing it
if
you have QEMM installed, because it can be installed as part of the QEMM
installation.


X. Technical Support
--------------------

Do *not* call Id Software for tech support with QuakeForge's modified
Quake, they no longer support our particular version and wouldn't know how
to help you anyways. Please go to the QuakeForge homepage for more
information on support at: http://www.quakeforge.net/

Thank you.


XI. Joystick notes
------------------
Your joystick must be plugged in when Quake is launched.

If you have a joystick plugged in, but don't want to use it in Quake
(it slows the game down a few percent), or you have weird hardware that
doesn't like being tested as a joystick add "-nojoy" to your Quake
command line.

You can turn off joystick reading during the game by typing "joystick 0"
at
the Quake command console.

You MUST configure your buttons from the configure keys menu before they
will
work.  There is no default configuration. 

If your joystick or interface card improperly sets the third or fourth
joystick buttons, type "joybuttons 2" at the quake console or in your
.CFG file.

The "mlook" button command now lets the joystick as well as the mouse
control
pitch angles.

The "sidestep" buttom command works on joysticks as with mice and keyboard
movement.

The "invert mouse up/down" menu option also inverts the joystick pitch
direction.


XII. License
------------

Quake

Copyright (C) 1996-2000. Id Software, Inc.
Copyright (C) 1999,2000. The QuakeForge Project.
Parts copyright individual authors.

This program is free software; you can redistribute it and/or modify
it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published 
by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of the License,
or (at your option) any later version.

This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,  
but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
GNU General Public License for more details.

You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
along with this program; if not, write to the Free Software
Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111-1307 USA

See file COPYING for license details.
